This project is a bot for League of Legends (LoL), a competitive MOBA video game. The bot is designed for Yuumi (a LoL character) playing the support role. It is fully functioning in Season 10 of LoL.

We decided to do this project with Yuumi because of a Reddit post (https://www.reddit.com/r/leagueoflegends/comments/ejllvq/hi_my_name_is_saskio_i_reached_platinum_playing/) that we saw about a player playing on two accounts at once, with one of those being Yuumi. After I dislocated my right elbow, the arm that I use my mouse with, I couldn't play LoL anymore. That was the perfect time to start working on this project so that I could still feel like I was "playing" the game.

In LoL each champion has four abilites; Q, W, E, and R. I will go into detail as to what each of Yuumi's abilities does and how we (another student and me) managed to go about having the bot use the abilities properly.

For percieving game information we tried using deep learning models for character recognition and progress bar reading, but found it easier and more efficient with using single pixel readings and comparing with recorded constants. We also use simple edge detection and corner finding to deduce positions in the League of Legends map, using the white box that highlights current FOV in the minimap. We often use little-known key-bindings to facilitate certain actions, such as (f1-f4) camera control for mounting different champions.

W:
The first ability that we worked on was Yuumi's W. This ability allows Yuumi to attach to an ally champion during which she cannot move or be damaged until she either detaches, that ally recalls or dies. In LoL the map is split into three lanes with one person going into the top lane, one person in the mid lane, two people in the bottom lane and one person who is in the jungle where they frequently interact with all three lanes. Yuumi is typically a support champion going bot lane with another champion which is how we coded the bot and why the bot by default attaches to the bot laner on Yuumi's team. If the bot laner dies she will try to recall if it is before 15 minutes or if that isn't the case, she will attach to the next best ally in order of priority: Jungler, Mid, Top. This was decided because of laning and grouping LoL conventions. Yuumi will also detach from allies after 20 minutes if another ally is low on hp so that she can use her E to heal them and once that ally is healed she will return to the highest priority available champion. There are certain scenarios where Yuumi will delay mounting if she needs to recuperate mana or health in base, or if her laner died, she escapes, it is before 15 minutes and thus should recall.

E:
Yuumi's E is a heal that can be used on an ally so long as she's attached to them. The Yuumi bot automatically calculates how much her E will heal for based on her current items and level to determine if she should or shouldn't heal her ally that she is attached to at the moment. If the ally is below 60% hp she will heal her ally even if it heals more than necessary and isn't being used to its fullest potential.

R:
Yuumi's R is a skillshot that fires 7 shots that does AP damage and if the enemy is hit by it 3 times they are rooted. The Yuumi bot will use R when their ally that they are attached to has lost a given percentage of hp in a given time to try to figure out if their ally is being bursted and thus the enemy must be close range. Her R is automatically aimed towards the enemy's nexus.

Q:
Yuumi's Q fires a beam that can be controlled with the mouse as it is in the air. This is the one ability that we have yet to complete the usage of because of its complexity. This ability will require Yuumi to be able to track the enemy's movement in real time as well as track any other objects that could block the Q like enemy minions or other enemy champions.

In terms of items Yuumi buys the same items every game in the same order and buys items whenever her ally recalls or she recalls and has enough gold to buy the next component. 

Some next steps involve optimizing Yuumi action protocol, including optimizing recall/mounting another champion choice considering healths, and distances between allied champions. We could also look to consider ally champion ultimate cooldown and ally ganking for Yuumi ultimate usage. An available resource that would be essential for bringing our bot to the next level is Deep League https://github.com/farzaa/DeepLeague. Deep League uses a database of League of Legends minimaps and deep learning to generate a list of champions and position coordinates. With enemy positions we would be able to select enemies (with left click) to then be able to retrieve information such as health and mana, we could also identify non bot-lane champions to understand when ganks are tanking place. With enemy champion position and all the other additional information we would increase the amount of considerations in our bot's protocols. This would also allow for proper R and Q aiming. We could use shortest path algorithms on the minimap between mounted champion and enemy champion, avoiding enemy minions (red dots) in order to optimize Q usage.

Thus far, the Yuumi bot currently plays at a Silver 4 level. This is as good or better than 34% of all ranked players in North America.
